Q. What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?
A. It creates an empty repository of git with no initial commits in it. One would need that to perform various commits for the version control of our files.

Q. How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?
A. Staging area is the preparation area for files to be committed. Only files in this area are going to be included in the commit executed next time. 
   It helps to divide changes in the working directory into several commits, each of which consists of a group of changes that represent a logical change to the 
   relevant files.

Q. How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?
A. By including only those file in staging area where a logic change or a new feature has been introduced and those files got updated because of that.
   Only those files should be placed in staging area and should be committed hence not just taking snap shot of whole directory but only the files in 
   staging area.
   
Q. What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?
A. One when want to apply some expermental and new features to the project but may also want to take care to fix the bugs in the previous version, 
   one can use to branching to apply updates and changes in the branch name and combine it to the master branch in the later stages. In this way, one can 
   make updates both on the master branch along with the new bt=rnch and checkout the at any time.
   
Q. How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
A. The diagrams will help to visualize the branches and the commit where the branches occurs thus keep tracking of the branches along with the master and will
   also help to understand the whole workflow of the project.
   
Q. What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?
A. The new file will be the result and updation of noth files with respect to the original file before the sepration of the branches. We represent in a
   to get the better understanding of the parents and the rechabiltity form the head commits of a branch to the other previous commits.
   
Q. What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?
A. Automatic merging saves a lot of time compared to doing merges manually. 


Commands:

git add  |    Add a file to the staging area
git commit  |    Commit the files from the staging area to the repository 
git status  |    Show which files are in the staging area, and which files from the working directory are not part of the repository    
git diff  |    Git diff without arguments is comparing the working directory with the staging area
git diff --staged  |    Compare the staging area with the repository
git reset --hard  |    Undo all changes! There is no rollback for this, so be carefull!
git checkout master  |    Restore the "Head" to the latest check-in (this will be part of a later lesson/module)
git log --graph --oneline <branch1> <branch2>  |    Show a visual representation of the commit history within different branches
git checkout -b new_branch_name  |    Creates a new branch and do a checkout on this branch in one call instead of git branch new_branch_name and git checkout new_branch_name
git merge branch1 branch2  |    Merge two branches, branch2 get merged into branch1
git branch -d name  |    Remove the branch with the specified name
git show commitId  |    Show the changes made in this commit compared to the previous version. This is working even after merging.

   
   